Welcome back you wonderful God people in this video are going to add some guards to a level.
We're not going to get the guards moving yet.
We're just going to get them ready tomorrow.
So what are we to do.
We need to create an instance of the character seen extend play detection change the sprite and add
a torch.
We also need to tweak the torching a little bit and show you why when we get there.
So let's get to it.
First thing to do is go to scene you inherited scene.
And I'm going to move to characters and it won't extend character.
So what are we extending from.
OK so here we have an unsafe scene so I know that this is the right one to be very sure let's call this
guard and say that this is now the guard scene.
I'm going to hide the light occlusions like a seal I'm doing.
Let's change the Sprite So our Sprite is going to be under.
Graphics.
Angie.
Soldier one.
And I'm just going to replace the Sprite with that one.
Great weather got one when they want to do is I want to incense in the torch which is the scenes torch.
There goes.
And I also want to remove the script right now using the character script.
We don't want the character script we want a brand new script called God.
So when I wrote that script and add a new one.
We're going to make sure we put this in our scripts folder.
It's going to be called Guard.
And it's going to inherit.
From player detection.
So play that action Harrison character.
And God inherits from play the techron.
That means God will have access to everything in character and everything in play.
The section which is great.
Okay.
So because I say that script for now we don't need to play with them.
What I need to do is make sure this is working.
Let's put a guard into our level just like we did with security cameras.
I'm going to put in a new note today.
Animals call us guards.
Let's instance one in
and immediately you could see why I need to tweak the torch.
And we had this problem already and we fixed it with the camera scene.
But what I did if I look at the camera seen I tweak the values in here.
So here's my texture offset.
And I scaled it down.
That was a mistake.
So mean to put this to scale back to one one and I'm going to reset this offset just like it was originally.
Now let's go into the torture scene and fix them.
Here is the texture Scout's point five.
Now it's half the size.
I'm not going to offset 340 and I'll set by half that.
And if I can't be bothered to do the maths I want to 340 divided by two and little figure out for me.
Aren't computers wonderful.
I must save this or it won't work so save I will go back into the level all the cameras and all the
guards now work great this is rotate the guard and there we go.
We now have the beginning of the guard.
Get rid of that's weak as it were doing so well I would like you to do is go on a hiring spree.
But some dads in your level.
Now don't be afraid to redesign your level.
We have a proof of concept.
Let's actually make something dramatic.
Do you want to make an office building do you want to make a military complex Do you want to make.
I don't know Candy research facility and maybe you're breaking in for the for the newest M and Ms flavour
are now making myself very hungry either way.
Pause the video puts some guards and your video.
No don't put your guards and your video.
Put your guns in the level I make in the video.
You'll make an A level.
OK we're clear on that.
Add some more cameras if you want.
Get something for mattick when you have you if you got unpause the video and then when you come back
I'll show you my version.
And welcome back.
So I'm not ecstatic with this layout because it feels what it feels like a random level so I mean I
go into my own walls and I'm going to.
OK.
So here's my quickly redone video that I sped the video out for so you didn't have to watch that.
For this bit of floor actually I'm not that I'm off this floor.
I've made a serendipities extra room and put my certainty plus extra room right here for all the serendipity
and give it a floor.
We just talk you through what I've got here.
So we're going to start over in this area this could be the reception room down here.
We're going to have some seating in someone's reception desk up here possibly an entrance and exit up
here.
This area's going to a bathroom because reasons that's now a janitors closet my janitor's closet of
serendipity.
Over here we have a main office area.
This is going to be a secure office area SEO office vault and another server room thing.
Or maybe you put the see your office here and all the rest of it will be able to lure the player to
go from one end of the place to the other.
Remembering secret codes.
Great.
Let's now move cameras and guards.
So where's my guard.
There's my guard.
Let's move off first guard.
That's God's going to live over here.
No.
Actually make sure I'm on my guard not my God.
Note that we move you over here.
Duplicate you you live your own bathroom.
You're over here and it's moving down here.
And another guard move you two up here.
And I think maybe one more.
Fantastic.
Now there's going to be lots of furniture and doors and so on so we're going to really clutter this
up and give the player lots of little places to hide cameras.
OK.
Was this camera this camera is there.
Let's move this camera.
This camera is going to move to that pillar that looks like a good place.
What about this camera this camera.
It's actually pretty good where it is.
I like that camera there.
In fact I'm going to duplicate it and rotates and move this one up here one here and one there.
Let's make this nice and tense.
Could that camera you know I want to give the player a good starting area one where they won't be seen.
So let's call that this area here and then move this camera.
To over here.
Right by this door great player.
You're going to live over there.
Let's see how that feels.
Now we don't yet have any moving guards but we do have quite an atmospheric space so we hear that's
going to feel good.
Here's on the guard more applicable to the guard helo like the peller you're guarding.
And here's a guard looking for lonely at the place where the desk or arrive.
But I here are late this is a sad guard.
He is filled with sadness.
I will leave him so he doesn't feel insecure about the fact that I'm looking and feeling sad.
I'm sure if he wants my support he will ask me for it.
But meanwhile in this video we've looked at how to tweak a scene this instance elsewhere.
I made a mistake by changing one instance of the torch.
How do I reset that.
But then the torture scene and propagate the change everywhere.
And we've hired guards we're ready to get them moving.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.